1) What is Ansible?
It is an open source platform which configures management, task automation and application deployment.

2) List Ansible’s advantages
	. It is agentless and only requires SSH service running on target machine
	. It comes with pre installed pyhton
	. Due to low overhead it requires minimal resource
	. It is written in .yml which is easy to learn and understand
	. It is declarative and fulfills requirements needed to achieve it

3) Explain what a “playbook” is.
It is the tool’s building blocks. It is .yml script based file that sends commands to remote computers. It helps to configure environments by passing a script which is easier than using individual commands.   

4) What’s an ad hoc command?
It is a one shot command that initiates action on host without using a playbook.

5) Explain the difference between a playbook and a play.
A playbook consists one or more plays. A play is a set of tasks that run on managed hosts which consists of tasks.

6) What is Prometheus?
It is an application used for event monitoring and alerting. It records metrics in a time series database built using a HTTP pull module with flexible queries and real time alerting.

7) What language is Prometheus written in?
It is written in GO format and licensed under the Apache 2 license whose source code is available in github and is a graduated project of the icloud native.

8) What license is Prometheus released under?
It is released under Apache 2 License.

9) Describe how Ansible works.
Ansible is a combination of multiple pieces working together to become an automation tool. It consists of modules, playbooks, and plugins.
Modules:
These are codes that will get executed. There are multiple inbuilt modules that serve as a starting point for building tasks.
Playbooks:
It contain plays which is a group of tasks. This is the place to define the workflow or the steps needed to complete a process
Plugins:
These are special kinds of modules that run on the main control machine for logging purposes. 

10) State the requirements for the Ansible server.
       . Supports Operating systems: Redhat
	. Latest stable release of ansible
	. Minimum of 2GB RAM and 4+GB RAM recommended
	. 20 GB hard disk
	. 64-bit support required, kernel and runtime
	. For Amazon EC2

11) What are tags in ansible?
Ansible tags helps to run extensive playbooks as a part of the opposed entire thing.

12) What’s a handler?
It is similar to a task in playbook but will only run if a task alerts the handler. It is automatically loaded by role . Handler will only run after the tasks are completed in a play.

13) what is ansible roles
Ansible role is a set of tasks to configure a host to server to configure a service. Roles are defined using .yml files with a predefined directory structure. A role directory structure contains directories: defaults, vars, tasks, files, templates, meta, handlers.

Practical:

1) Install Prometheus and node exporter using     ansible
  - configure nodeexporter in prometheus.yml file
---
- name: Install prometheus
  hosts: webservers
  become: true
  become_method: sudo

  tasks:
       - name: Download  prometheus

         get_url:

               url:  https://github.com/prometheus/prometheus/releases/download/v2.27.1/prometheus-2.27.1.linux-amd64.tar.gz

               dest: /home/ubuntu

       - name: Install Prometheus

         unarchive:
                 src : /home/ubuntu/prometheus-2.27.1.linux-amd64.tar.gz

                 dest: /home/ubuntu
cd /etc/ansible
sudo vi hosts
added slave ip address


2) Write a playbook to create S3 bucket 
---
- name: Create a S3 Bucket
  hosts: localhost
  connection: local
  vars_files:
          - creds.yml
  tasks:
  - name : create a simple s3 bucket
    amazon.aws.s3_bucket:
            name: dipushanbucket
            state: present
            region: us-east-2
            aws_access_key: ""
            aws_secret_key: ""
creds.yml has access key and secret key
python3 -m pip install boto3
